# Raw scrape
- **URL**: http://www.alputilities.com/residential/rebates.php
- **Parent URL**: 
- **Type**: web

---
--- SOURCE: https://www.alputilities.com/wp-content/uploads/2026-EV-Charger-Rebate-Form.pdf ---
## 1 of 2 2026 EV Charger V1.5 2026-0101
Home EV Charger – Level 2
* * *
## _2026 Bright Energy Solutions® Rebate Form_
Install a ChargePoint Home Flex charger, connect it to our ChargePoint Utility Home Charging Program, and drive away with a
* * *
$500 rebate! Or install another Level 2 charger of your choice to earn a $150 rebate. Customer Information (Please Print) Name of Homeowner Phone Installation Date Installation Address City State ZIP Code Mailing Address (if different) City State ZIP code Email Address Municipal Utility Name and Account Number
* * *
Plug-in Hybrid or All-Electric Vehicle Information (Resident must own or lease electric vehicle to qualify for charter rebate.) Manufacturer/Make Model Model Year Dealership Name Dealership City/State Copy of Proof of Purchase must be attached. (vehicle registration, title, lease, or final purchasing agreement.) Transaction must be completed, and customer must be in possession of the vehicle to be eligible for rebate.
* * *
Level 2 Charger Information  ChargePoint Home Flex ($500 rebate) Serial Number  The ChargePoint charger has been activated and connected to ChargePoint, and has been connected to my local municipal utility through the ChargePoint Utility Home Charging Program. (See page 4 for instructions.)  Other Level 2 Charger ($150 rebate) Customer must provide copy of receipt Manufacturer Model Number
* * *
Please answer the following questions to help us bettter understand your needs.
* * *
How many days per week do you charge you EV at home?  6-7 times  4-5 times  2-3 times  1 time  Less than once per week  Never When do you usually charge at home?*  7 a.m.11 a.m.  11 a.m.3 p.m.  3 p.m.7 p.m.  7 p.m.7 a.m.  Other:
* * *
Utility power costs vary by day and time of day. Are you willing to charge from 8 pm to 6 am to help keep costs down?  Definitely  Very Likely  Somewhat likely  Unlikely  Definitely not *Please note: To help us keep electric rates as low as possible for our community, we strongly encourage you to charge your EV during off-peak hours between 8 p.m. to 6 a.m. Using your charger or vehicle app to schedule charging makes it easy!
* * *
## 2 of 2 2026 EV Charger V1.5 2026-0101
Customer Certifications and Signature I hereby certify that: 1. The information contained in this application is accurate and complete. 2. A full-time resident of this household owns or leases a plug-in electric vehicle (EV). Limited to one rebate per EV. 3. The Level 2 charger indicated on Page 1 of this application has been installed at the address identified. 4. I agree to maintain connection to the ChargePoint Utility Home Charging Program through a Wi-Fi connection for a minimum of 36 months from the date of incentive payment. (ChargePoint chargers only) 5. I have read and understand the Terms and Conditions applicable to this incentive program as set forth in this application. Please sign and complete all information below. Homeowner Signature Print Name
* * *
Date Utility Use Only Date Received: Post-Inspected Date: Incentive Approved: Yes No Utility Rep Initials: Utility Representative Name:
* * *
ELIGIBILITY: • These incentives are offered by Missouri River Energy Services and its participating members. For questions regarding eligibility, contact your local utility. • Residential customers who purchase electricity from The Utility are eligible to participate in the Bright Energy Solutions ChargePoint Utility Home Charging Program. Eligible equipment must be connected to an electric service billed by The Utility under a residential rate class or serving residential space. Residential customers installing a charger in a multifamily situation billed by the Utility under a commercial rate class may also qualify if approved by The Utility. Someone living at the residence full-time must own or lease one plug-in hybrid or all electric vehicle per charger rebated. • This program is applicable only to equipment that meets the detailed equipment specifications and requirements described in this application. The Utility will determine, in its discretion, whether such specifications and requirements are satisfied. • Customers may not receive more than one incentive for each piece of equipment installed under this program or any combination of Bright Energy Solutions programs. TERMS AND CONDITIONS: • Incentive Offer: A signed application, itemized invoices, and other required documents must be submitted to the participating utility. Incomplete applications will cause delays in payment or denial of the application. • Compliance: • All projects must comply with federal, state, and local safety, building, and environmental codes. • Equipment must not be used to qualify and receive payment for energy savings from any wholesale electricity market. • Customers may only receive one incentive per piece of qualifying equipment. • All terms and conditions of this application must be satisfied by the customer. • Payment: Once completed paperwork is submitted, incentive payments are usually made within 4 – 8 weeks. Incomplete applications will either delay payments or be denied. The Utility reserves the right to refuse payment and participation if the customer or the customer’s contractor violates program rules and procedures. • Inspection: The Utility may conduct an inspection of the customer’s facility to survey any installed projects. The Utility may inspect customer records relating to incentives sought by the customer. • Information Sharing: The Utility reserves the right to publicize your participation in this program, unless you specifically request otherwise in writing. Information contained in this application may be shared with state boards, commissions, departments, and other Bright Energy Solutions participating utilities. • Program Discretion: Incentives are available on a first-come, first-served basis. This program and its incentive amounts are subject to change or termination without notice at the discretion of The Utility. Neither pre-approval of a project, nor any other action by The Utility, will entitle a customer to an incentive payment until the application is finally approved by The Utility. The Utility reserves the right to load manage (cycle on or off) customer equipment that qualifies for incentives under this program. • Logo Use: Customers or trade allies may not use the name or logo of Bright Energy Solutions, The Utility, or any other participating utility in any marketing, advertising, or promotional material without written permission. • Disclaimers: The Utility • does not endorse any particular manufacturer, product, labor or system design by offering these programs; • will not be responsible for any tax liability imposed on the customer as a result of the payment of incentives; • does not expressly or implicitly warrant the installation or performance of installed equipment or any contractor’s quality of work (contact the equipment manufacturer or contractor for warranties); • is not responsible for the proper disposal/recycling of any waste generated as a result of this project; • is not liable for any damage, injury, or loss of life arising from or relating to the removal, installation, or operation of any equipment, or any other action taken by the customer or The Utility, in connection with a project undertaken by the customer under the programs described in this application; • does not guarantee that a specific level of energy or cost savings will result from the implementation of energy efficiency measures or the use of products funded under this program. INCENTIVE LIMIT: Eligible customers may purchase and install qualifying equipment and receive a home charger incentive of $500 (limit one charger per EV). Incentives for particular items of equipment and/or systems are limited as set forth in this application.
* * *


--- SOURCE: https://www.alputilities.com/wp-content/uploads/2026-Energy-Star-Rebate-Form-ALPupdate.pdf ---
## • All products must be ENERGY STAR® certified.
• LED rebate applications must include original packaging or photo of packaging showing ENERGY STAR® logo.
* * *
## _2026 ELEC 2025-1128_
ENERGY STAR® Rebates
* * *
**First Name Last Name Email Address Phone**
**Account Number Signature Electric Utility Name**
**Brand Model Number**
**Brand Model Number**
**Brand Model Number**
**Brand Model Number**
**Brand Model Number**
Bright Energy Solutions® 2020 Equipment Installation Street Address City Mailing Address (if different) ZIP City State ENERGY ST AR® Rebates − 2026 Bright Energy Solutions® Residential Rebate Form Getting a rebate is easy! Email completed form and copy of sales receipt within 180 days of purchase to: rebate@brightenergysolutions.com. Or mail this form, along with a copy of your receipt, to your local utility shown on Page 2. This rebate offer is good for purchase of new ENERGY STAR certified products. Restrictions apply. This offer is available to customers of participating munici pal electric utilities listed on the back of this form. Equipment must be in stalled in a residence served by a participating electric utility. Exterior instal lations do not qualify. Equipment must not be used to qualify and receive payment for energy savings from any wholesale electricity market. Mail completed application and dated sales receipt, to your participating mu nicipal utility, or email to: rebate@brightenergysolutions.com. Applications must be postmarked within 180 days of purchase. If you do not receive your rebate within 8 weeks, please call your utility. Utility may inspect to verify installed equipment. This program is reviewed and authorized each year for rebates available from January 1 through December 31. This rebate offer is available on a first-come, first-served basis, and can be changed or withdrawn at any time without no tice. The utilities do not warrant the performance of installed equipment expressly or implicitly. Rebate will not exceed purchase cost of equipment. Not responsible for lost, late, or undelivered responses. This form has no cash value. Please retain a copy for your records. Any use of this rebate or form except as described herein constitutes fraud. Fraudulent submissions could result in federal prosecution under U.S. Mail Fraud Statute (18 U.S. Code, Section 1241 and 1242). Please dispose of used appliances in an environmentally friendly way. → Air cleaner$25....................... → Clothes washer (water heater must be electric)$25 → Dehumidifier (portable)$25............ → Dehumidifier (whole-home w/ducting)$200 Brand Model Number → Heat pump water heater$200........... Tank Size: gal Brand Model Number → Room air conditioner$75.............. Brand Model Number → LED recessed can fixture or retrofit kit$4 Quantity: → Dishwasher$25....................... Brand Model Number → Ceiling fan$25....................... → Smart thermostat$25................. Brand Model Number Controlling Central A/C Controlling Heat Pump Water heater fuel source: Gas Electric Propane Other
* * *
**IOWA**
**Atlantic Municipal Utilities**
**PO Box 517**
**Atlantic** and **IA 50022**
**Denison Municipal Utilities**
**PO Box 518**
**Kimballton Municipal Utilities**
**PO Box 79**
**Lake Park Municipal Utilities**
**PO Box 536**
**Paullina Municipal Utilities**
**PO Box 239**
**PO Box 88**
**Pella** and **IA 50219**
**Primghar Municipal Utilities**
Mail the completed application and sales receipt to your utility. Or email the documents to: rebate@brightenergysolutions.com Phone: (712)-243-1395 Denison, IA 51442-0518 Phone: (712) 263-4154 Kimballton, IA 51543-0092 Phone: (712) 773-3451 Lake Park, IA 51347-0536 Phone: (712) 832-3667 Paullina, IA 51046-0239 Phone: (712) 949-3428 City of Pella Phone: (641) 628-2581
* * *
## _160 S. Hayes Ave._
**PO Box 39**
Primghar, IA 51245-7723
* * *
**Shelby Municipal Utilities**
**PO Box 186**
**Power**
Phone: (712) 957-2435 Shelby, IA 51570-0816 Phone: (712) 544-2404 Woodbine Municipal Light &
* * *
## _517 Walker St._
Woodbine, IA 51579-1262
* * *
**MINNESOTA**
**Adrian Public Utilities**
**PO Box 190**
**ALP Utilities**
**PO Box 609**
**Barnesville Municipal Utilities**
**PO Box 550**
**Benson Munic**
Phone: (712) 647-2340 Adrian, MN 56110-0190 Phone: (507) 483-2849 Alexandria, MN 56308-0609 Phone: (320) 763-6501 Barnesville, MN 56514-0550 Phone: (218) 354-2292 2025-1113 ipal Utilities
* * *
## _1410 Kansas Ave._
Benson, MN 56215-1718
* * *
Phone: (320) 843-3707 Breckenridge P ublic Utilities
* * *
## _420 Nebraska Ave._
Breckenridge, MN 56520-1419
* * *
**Detroit La**
Phone: (218) 643-4681 kes Public Utilities
* * *
## _1025 Roosevelt Ave._
**Detroit Lakes** and **MN 56501**
Phone: (218) 847-7609
* * *
**Elbow Lak**
**PO Box 1079**
**Henning Municipal Ut**
**PO Box 55**
**Jackson Muni**
e Municipal Electric Elbow Lake, MN 56531-1079 Phone: (218) 685-4135 ilities Henning, MN 56551-0055 Phone: (218) 583-2402 cipal Utilities
* * *
## _80 W. Ashley St._
Jackson, MN 56143-1669
* * *
**Lake Park**
**Public Utilities**
**PO Box 239**
**Lakefie**
**PO Box 1023**
**Luverne Municipal Ut**
**PO Box 659**
**Madison Munic**
Phone: (507) 847-4410 Lake Park, MN 56554-0239 Phone: (218) 238-5532 ld Public Utilities Lakefield, MN 56150-1023 Phone: (507) 662-6363 ilities Luverne, MN 56156-0659 Phone: (507) 449-2388 ipal Utilities
* * *
## _404 Sixth Ave._
Madison, MN 56256-1265
* * *
**Melrose Publi**
Phone: (320) 598-7373 c Utilities
* * *
## _225 First St. N.E._
Melrose, MN 56352-1153
* * *
Phone: (320) 256-4278 Moorhead Public S ervice
* * *
## _500 Center Ave., 2nd Floor_
**PO Box 779**
Moorhead, MN 56561-0779
* * *
**Ortonville**
**Municipal Utilities**
Phone: (218) 477-8000
* * *
## _437 N. Minnesota St._
**Ortonville** and **MN 56278**
Phone: (320) 839-3428
* * *
**Sauk Centre Public**
**Utilities Commission**
## _101 Main St. S._
Sauk Centre, MN 56378-0128
* * *
**PO Box 70**
**Wadena Utilities Department**
Phone: (320) 352-6538 St. James Public Utility St. James, MN 56081-0070 Phone: (507) 375-3241 Staples Water & Light 122 6th St. NE Staples, MN 56479-0000 Phone: (218) 894-2550
* * *
## _1200 Sunnybrook Road_
**Wadena** and **MN 56482**
Phone: (218) 631-7712
* * *
**Westbrook Public Utilities**
**PO Box 308**
**Willmar Municipal Utilities**
**PO Box 937**
**Worthington Public Utilities**
**PO Box 458**
**NORTH DAKOTA**
**Cavalier Municipal Utilities**
**PO Box 750**
**Hillsboro Municipal Utilities**
**PO Box 400**
**Lakota Municipal Utilities**
**PO Box 505**
**Northwood Municipal Utilities**
**PO Box 397**
**Valley City Public Works**
Westbrook, MN 56183-0308 Phone: (507) 274-6712 Willmar, MN 56201-0937 Phone: (320) 235-4422 Worthington, MN 56187-0458 Phone: (507) 372-8680 Cavalier, ND 58220-0750 Phone: (701) 265-8800 Hillsboro, ND 58045-0400 Phone: (701) 636-4620 Lakota, ND 58344-0505 Phone: (701) 247-2454 Northwood, ND 58267-0397 Phone: (701) 587-5370
* * *
## _220 Third St. N.E._
Valley City, ND 58072-0240
* * *
**SOUTH**
**DAKOTA**
Phone: (701) 845-0380 City of Beresford
* * *
## _101 N. Third St._
**Beresford** and **SD 57004**
Phone: (605) 763-2008
* * *
**Big Stone**
**City Municipal Utilities**
**PO Box 246**
**PO Box 588**
**Burke Municipal Ut**
**PO Box 250**
**Burke** and **SD 57523**
**Faith Munici**
**PO Box 368**
**Faith** and **SD 57626**
Big Stone City, SD 57216-0246 Phone: (605) 862-8121 Brookings M unicipal Utilities Brookings, SD 57006-0588 Phone: (605) 692-6325 ilities Phone: (605) 775-2913 pal Utilities Phone: (605) 967-2261 Flandreau Municipal U tilities
* * *
## _1005 W. Elm Ave._
**Flandreau** and **SD 57028**
Phone: (605) 997-2492
* * *
**Fort Pierre**
**Municipal Utilities**
**PO Box 700**
**PO Box 107**
**Pierre Munici**
**PO Box 1253**
Fort Pierre, SD 57532-0700 Phone: (605) 223-7690 Town of P ickstown Pickstown, SD 57367-0107 Phone: (605) 487-7553 pal Utilities Pierre, SD 57501-1253 Phone: (605) 773-7341 City of V ermillion
* * *
## _25 Center St._
Vermillion, SD 57069-2101
* * *
**Watert**
Phone: (605) 677-7050 own Municipal Utilities
* * *
## _901 Fourth Ave. SW_
Watertown, SD 57201-4106
* * *
**Winner Municipal Utili**
Phone: (605) 882-6233 ties
* * *
## _325 Monroe St., Ste 118_
Winner, SD 57580-0691
* * *
Phone: (605) 842-2621
* * *


--- SOURCE: https://www.alputilities.com/wp-content/uploads/ALP-Water-Heater-Rebate-Form_Update2026.pdf | TITLE: ALP Water Heater Rebate Form_Update2026 ---
ALP Utilities 1015 34th Ave E Alexandria, MN 56308 alputilities.com (320) 763-6501
* * *


