# Raw scrape
- **URL**: http://cpuc.ca.gov/energyefficiency/
- **Parent URL**: 
- **Type**: web

---
--- SOURCE: https://www.cpuc.ca.gov/-/media/cpuc-website/divisions/energy-division/documents/energy-efficiency/eepolicymanualrevised-march-20-2020-b.pdf ---
**Version 6**
**April 2020**
Applicable to post-2018 Energy Efficiency Programs
* * *
**ENERGY EFFICIENCY POLICY MANUAL**
##  _Table of Contents_
(Click on each heading to access that part of the document)
* * *
i. Introduction ii. How to Use this Document iii. Common Terms and Definitions I. Energy Efficiency Policy Objectives 1. Energy Efficiency as a Procurement Resource 2. Energy Savings Goals 3. Implementation of California Energy Efficiency Strategic Plan 4. Energy Efficiency Program Design 5. Program Portfolio Development, Balance and Management 6. Integrated Demand Side Management 7. Emerging Technologies 8. Codes and Standards 9. Marketing, Outreach and Education 10. Competitive Bidding for Third Party Programs 11. Local Government and Institutional Partnerships 12. Pilot Programs II. Funding Guidelines for IOUs 1. Energy Efficiency Funds from Procurement and Gas Surcharge 2. Cost Caps and Targets 3. Fund Shifting Rules (See Appendix A) 4. Funding Business Plans
* * *
5. Shared Funding and Funding for Evaluation, Measurement, & Valuation (EM&V;) 6. Treatment of Unspent Funds from Prior Portfolio Cycles 7. Program Cancellation III. Regional Energy Networks & Community Choice Aggregators 1. Regional Energy Networks 2. Community Aggregators 3. Business Plans 4. Implementation Oversight and Reporting Requirements 5. Threshold of Review 6. Program Cost-Effectiveness Threshold 7. Community Choice Aggregator (CCA) and Regional Energy Network (REN) Funding 8. Evaluation, Measurement and Verification Requirements IV. Cost-Effectiveness 1. Standard Practice Manual (SPM) 2. Total Resource Cost Test (TRC) 3. Program Administrator Cost Test (PAC) 4. Application of the TRC and the PAC, the Dual-Test 5. Overall Cost-Effectiveness of Investor Owned Utilities (IOU), REN, and CCA Portfolios 6. Avoided Costs and Other Inputs 7. Cost-Effectiveness Adjustments for Free-Ridership & Market Effects 8. Portfolio Filing of Prospective Cost Effectiveness 9. Common Sector Level Metrics 10. Cost Sharing & Cost-Effectiveness Across Utility Service Territories 11. Cost Effectiveness Requirements for Fuel Substitution Programs
* * *
12. Mid-Cycle Funding Augmentations 13. References V. Implementation Oversight and Reporting Requirements 1. Program Reporting Requirements 2. Business Plans and Annual Budget Advice Letters 3. Counting of Savings VI. Ex Ante Savings and Review 1. CPUC Oversight of Ex Ante Values 2. Database of Energy Efficiency Resources (DEER) and Non-DEER Measures and Workpapers 3. Freezing of Ex Ante Values 4. Mid-year updates of Ex Ante Values 5. Ex Ante Review of Non-DEER Measures 6. Installation Rate for DEER and non-DEER Measures 7. Establishment of Baseline for use in Establishing TRC Savings and Costs. 8. Custom Projects 9. Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) Interactive Effects 10. Persistence of Savings 11. Gross Realization Rate 12. Statewide Workpapers VII. Evaluation, Measurement and Verification (EM&V;) 1. Purpose of EM&V; 2. IOU and Energy Division (ED) Collaboration on EM&V; Plan 3. Energy Division Role in EM&V; Administration 4. IOU Role in EM&V; Administration 5. ED Role in IOU-led Studies
* * *
6. IOU Role in ED-led Studies 7. Dispute Resolutions 8. Public Vetting Process 9. EM&V; in the Rolling Portfolio VIII. Shareholder Incentive Mechanism 1. Incentive Mechanism Criteria. 2. Energy Savings and Performance Incentive (ESPI) Categories
* * *
3. Scaling Incentive Earnings Potential for Resource Savings
* * *
4. Ex Ante Review Performance Scoring
* * *
5. Uncertain Measures
* * *
6. Calculating Resource Savings Incentive Awards
* * *
7. Verification of Expenditure and Claims Data
* * *
8. Resource Savings Claim and Expenditure Eligibility
* * *
9. Approval of Incentive Claims
* * *
10. Dispute Resolution of Ex Post Evaluations
* * *
11. References
* * *
IX. Third Party Solicitation Process 1. The Two Stage Solicitation Process
* * *
2. Scoring Solicitations 3. Solicitation Schedule 4. Energy Division Review of Solicitations 5. Independent Evaluator’s Role in Solicitation Process 6. Workforce Standards X. Advisory Groups 1. California Energy Efficiency (EE) Advisory Coordinating Committer (CAEECC)
* * *
2. Procurement Review Groups (PRGs) XI. Affiliate & Disclosure Rules 1. Transactions with IOU Affiliate 2. Treatment of Energy Efficiency Service Providers 3. Conflict of Interest XII. Process & Procedural Issues 1. Energy Efficiency Policy Manual Disclaimer 2. Modifications to Rules or Existing Policy 3. Complaints and Dispute Resolution
* * *
APPENDIX A: Adopted Fund Shifting Rules APPENDIX B: Glossary APPENDIX C: Cost Categories, Related Cap, and Targets APPENDIX D: Phase 2 Workpaper Review
* * *
ENERGY EFFICIENCY POLICY MANUAL Version 6.0 FOR POST-2018 PROGRAMS
* * *
i. Introduction
* * *
This document presents the California Public Utilities Commission’s (CPUC’s) policy rules and related reference documents for the administration, oversight, and evaluation of energy efficiency (EE) programs funded by ratepayers in California. The purpose of the Energy Efficiency Policy Manual is to provide the most up to date list of the rules established by Commission Decisions and Resolutions that govern the administration of energy efficiency programs. This manual enumerates standing Commission rules that continue to apply to the current portfolio even as subsequent decisions supersede past rules. Version 6.0 shall apply to all energy efficiency activities commencing in program year (PY) 2018 and beyond. The policy rules, terms and definitions contained herein pertain to efficiency activities funded through the following mechanisms:
* * *
• The gas public purpose program (PPP) surcharges, as authorized by §890- 900. • Electric procurement rates, as authorized by the Commission.
* * *
The rules in this policy manual, unless specifically indicated, apply to all the following entities that are funded through the mechanisms above and include the four large investor-owned utilities (and their third party implementers and administrators), including: o Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E;), o Southern California Edison Company (SCE), o San Diego Gas & Electric Company (SDG&E;) and o Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas); o Community Choice Aggregators (CCA), and o Regional Energy Networks (RENs)
* * *
Chapter III focuses more specifically on the CCA and RENs: More information on CCAs can be found here:
* * *
o https://www.cpuc.ca.gov/general.aspx?id=2567
* * *
More information on Regional Energy Networks can be found here (among other EE program administrator information): o https://www.cpuc.ca.gov/General.aspx?id=4460
* * *
This manual does not address the following programs: • Energy Savings Assistance Programs for low income customers, • California Alternative Rates for Energy (CARE) for low-income customers, • Interruptible rate or load management programs, • Self-generation and demand-response programs developed in response to Assembly Bill (AB) 970 (§ 399.15(b)), or • Small and/or Multijurisdictional Utilities (SMJUs). This document, which supersedes all previous versions of the Energy Efficiency Policy Manual, provides may of the CPUC’s policy rules (“Rules”) stipulated in CPUC decisions and resolutions that apply on an ongoing basis to current (circa 2018) and future energy efficiency portfolios. This manual is compiled by staff and is not formally adopted by the CPUC. As such, it is intended to be a handy reference for many of the significant and/or more commonly applied efficiency portfolio Rules, but it is not an exhaustive compilation of all rules developed in CPUC decisions and resolutions that apply to the energy efficiency portfolios. In addition, while much of the CPUC’s guidance referenced in this document applies specifically to IOUs who implement and administer EE programs, all program implementers (including third-party, CCA’s, etc.) should seek to adhere to them as well, unless clearly exempt, and should confer with the IOU program administrators, who oversee the EE portfolio and all EE programs, for clarification as needed.
* * *
i. How to Use this Document This document is intended to provide a high-level overview of the significant policies that impact energy efficiency programs in the State of California as determined by the California Public Utilities Commission. It does not provide in-depth detail about each policy area but provides a summary and links to the various regulatory documents that do. The purpose of this document is to provide a birds-eye view of the relevant policy rules that all energy efficiency program implementers should know while also providing them the tools and resources needed to develop more expertise in this area as they see fit. As previously noted, this document should NOT be considered a completely detailed source of information, in and of itself, but it does provide comprehensive access to all the relevant policy documents in the form of references and links. While links to all documents referenced in this
* * *
document are provided, these documents can also be found on the Commission’s website by typing in the document number (all letters capitalized with no dashes) in the search bars located here: https://www.cpuc.ca.gov/documents/#DocTypeSearches
* * *
ii. Common Terms and Definitions
* * *
Common terms and definitions will facilitate the administration and evaluation of energy efficiency activities. In particular, program definitions should be designed to facilitate to the extent possible: (1) the identification of energy efficiency activities by end-use savings potential, (2) the evaluation, measurement and verification (EM&V;) of those activities based on Commission-adopted EM&V; protocols, and (3) the coordination of program administration and evaluation with resource planning and procurement needs. To this end, all entities subject to these rules and all program implementers should use the definitions included in Appendix B when characterizing any proposed program activity. The burden is on them to justify any departure from those definitions.
* * *
I. Energy Efficiency Policy Objectives
* * *
1. Energy Efficiency as a Procurement Resource. CPUC and State energy policy, as expressed in the original 2005 Energy Action Plan (EAP) and reaffirmed in Decision (D).04 12-048, strives to make energy efficiency and demand response the IOUs’ highest priority procurement resources. The 2008 EAP promotes ongoing support for the loading order and identifies energy efficiency and demand response as the State’s preferred means of meeting growing energy needs. After cost-effective energy efficiency and demand response resources, we rely on renewable sources for power and distributed generation.1 This is also consistent with Pub. Util. Code § 454.5(b)(9)(C),2 which requires IOUs to first meet their “unmet energy resource needs through all available energy efficiency and demand reduction resources that are cost effective, reliable, and feasible.” In order to promote the resource procurement policies articulated in the Energy Action Plan and by this CPUC, demand-side energy efficiency activities funded by ratepayers should offer programs that serve as alternatives to supply-side resource options (demand-side energy resource programs). By keeping energy resource procurement costs as low as possible through the deployment of a cost-effective portfolio of resource programs, over time all customers will share in the resource savings from energy efficiency. An additional type of EE program are non-resource demand-side programs
* * *
## http://docs.cpuc.ca.gov/word_pdf/REPORT/51604.pdf
## _2 Hereafter all references to code sections are to the Public Utilities Code unless otherwise noted._
designed to promote market sector specific approaches that indirectly reduce energy usage (ex: marketing, education, and outreach programs)
* * *
2. Energy Savings Goals. One of the CPUC’s objectives is to pursue all cost-effective energy efficiency opportunities over both the short and long term. The CPUC established electricity and natural gas savings goals, pursuant to Pub. Util. Code § 454.55 and 454.56. In D.04-09 060, the CPUC first provided numerical goals for electricity and natural gas savings by utility service territory. The CPUC-adopted energy savings goals are expressed in terms of Gigawatt hours, million-therms, and peak Megawatt load reductions. These goals are informed by periodic Energy Efficiency Potential and Goals Studies, and historically were updated in D.08 07-047, D.09-05-037, D.09-09-047, D.12-05-015, D.12-11-015,and D.17-09-025. Thee most recent goals decision; D.19-08-034 established goals for 2020 – 2030. Energy Efficiency goals shall continue to be updated periodically by the CPUC. The IOUs should develop their energy efficiency program portfolios so that they will meet or exceed these savings goals. The CPUC’s intent is for goals to:
* * *
(1) be appropriately aggressive; 3 (2) support long-term procurement planning; 4 (3) encourage a focus on long-term savings; 5 and (4) be based on the best available information. 6 In D.17-09-025, The Decision Adopting Energy Efficiency Goals for 2018 – 2030, the CPUC adopted energy savings goals for ratepayer-funded energy efficiency program portfolios for 2018 and beyond based on an assessment of economic potential using the Total Resource Cost test, the 2016 update to the Avoided Cost Calculator, and a greenhouse gas adder that reflects the California Air Resources Board Cap-and-Trade Allowance Price Containment Reserve Price. The CPUC also deferred the adoption of cumulative goals until the California Energy CPUC develops a method for calculating savings persistence and CPUC staff assesses the viability of that method for the purpose of EE goals.
* * *
## D.04-09-060 at 3
## _4 D.04-09-060 at 35_
## _5 D.07-10-032 at 5_
## _6 D.08-07-047 at 18-19_
Goals for the 20182030 portfolio cycle will be applied on the following basis:
* * *
a. Energy savings goals are based on achieving 100 percent of incremental market potential identified in the most recent Potential Study for both gas and electric savings. 7
* * *
b. Separate energy savings goals were adopted for IOU Codes and Standards (C&S;) advocacy. The C&S; advocacy category represents the estimated energy savings forecasted for the Title 20 and 24 updates and federal appliance standards that can be attributed to the IOUs’ C&S; advocacy program (D.12-11-015, pp. 56-58).
* * *
c. Energy savings goals are set on a “net basis.” (D.16-08-019, p. 19).
* * *
d. The CPUC intends to develop a better understanding of the sustained impact of the utility programs (including decay and market transformative effects) to encourage programs that will have lasting impacts and to hold IOUs accountable for long-term savings in future portfolios. (D.12-05-015 at 95.)
* * *
3. Implementation of the California Long-Term Energy Efficiency Strategic Plan. D.07 10-032 established a broader framework for statewide coordination on energy efficiency program design, in order to overcome market barriers to more widespread adoption of energy efficiency and to capture longer-term savings. The decision directed the IOUs to work with CPUC staff and market participants to prepare the California Long-Term Energy Efficiency Strategic Plan (Strategic Plan). Adopted in D.08-09-040, the Strategic Plan set forth a roadmap for energy efficiency in California through 2020 and beyond, by articulating a long-term vision and goals for each market sector and identifying specific near-term, mid-term and long-term strategies to achieve the goals. (The Strategic Plan can be viewed at http://www.cpuc.ca.gov/NR/rdonlyres/D4321448-208C-48F9-9F62 1BBB14A8D717/0/EEStrategicPlan.pdf).
* * *
## The Potential Study can be viewed at http://www.cpuc.ca.gov/PUC/energy/Energy+Efficiency/Energy+Efficiency+Goals+and+
Potential+Studies.htm
* * *
D.08-09-040 and the subsequent October 30, 2008 Ruling in A.08-07-021 directed the IOUs to align their programs with Strategic Plan goals by clearly identifying utility actions for all Strategic Plan near-term strategies and action steps, where a utility role is important, and to provide programs that reflect the Strategic Plan short-term steps and milestones. (D.08-09 040, ordering paragraph 2.)
* * *
i. Among the market strategies identified as necessary to achieve market transformation, the Strategic Plan established three long-term goals for energy efficiency: • All new residential construction in California will be zero net energy by 2020; • All new commercial construction in California will be zero net energy by 2030; and • The Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC) industry will be reshaped to ensure optimal equipment performance
* * *
ii. The Strategic Plan expanded the CPUC’s objectives for the energy efficiency portfolios to also pursue market transformation, which was defined as “long-lasting sustainable changes in the structure or functioning of a market achieved by reducing barriers to the adoption of energy efficiency measures to the point where continuation of the same publicly-funded intervention is no longer appropriate in that specific market. Market transformation includes promoting one set of efficient technologies until they are adopted into codes and standards (or otherwise adopted by the market), while also moving forward to bring the next generation of even more efficient technologies to the market.” (D.09-09-047 at 354.)
* * *
4. Energy Efficiency Program Design. D.15-10-028 established a “Rolling Portfolio” process for regularly reviewing and revising portfolios. Central to the rolling portfolio cycle framework is the rolling portfolio schedule. This schedule is described in Attachment 5 and 6
* * *
in D.15-10-028. 8 IOUs, CCAs, and RENS must use the same process for program design. For example, program related business plans must be submitted for CPUC review and approval and revised if prompted by certain triggers as described in D.15-10-028. p. 56-57. Existing plans (prior to the adoption of D.15-10-028) do not need a new application until they have one year of funding left for the corresponding program. The IOUs should implement statewide programs in order to achieve economies of scale and employ industry best practices.9
* * *
5. Program Portfolio Development, Balance and Management. The most appropriate program design and balance of program funding across market sectors (e.g., residential, industrial, commercial) should be based on maximizing cost-effective long-term savings. D.07 10-032 directed the IOUs to work with stakeholders, including the CPUC and the California Energy Commission (CEC) staff as well as market participants, to encourage the application of best practices, portfolio diversity and innovation. IOUs are expected to coordinate to develop and manage statewide programs, in order to avoid duplications of efforts and promote innovation and good program management. IOUs should also include a selection of non resource programs such as statewide marketing and outreach programs, information and education programs, workforce education and training, emerging technologies programs and other activities in their proposed portfolios that support the CPUC’s short-term and long term energy savings goals. Non-resource programs also help in achieving Strategic Plan objectives. Lastly, the IOUs have been directed by the CPUC to utilize a percentage of their program funding for third party designed and implemented programs. D.18-01-004, modified by D.18-05-041 requires the IOUs to use at least 25 percent of their program funding for third parties by PY 2020, 4 percent by PY 2021, and 6 percent by 2023.
* * *
6. Integrated Demand Side Management. In order to achieve maximum savings while avoiding duplication of efforts, reducing transaction costs, and diminishing customer confusion, the IOUs are required to integrate customer demand side programs, such as energy efficiency, self-generation, advanced metering, and demand response in a coherent and efficient manner. Integrated demand side management (IDSM) is identified in the Strategic Plan as an overarching strategy to promote customer-side energy management and achievement of zero net energy goals.10 In Ordering Paragraph (OP) 10 of D.18-05-041, the CPUC directed that a set amount of the IOUs’ IDSM budget shall focus on the integration between energy efficiency and demand response. The CPUC also has related work on
* * *
## 2013-14 Portfolio cycle program guidance provided in D.12-05-15 and D.12-11-015 for RENs, and D.14-01-033
for CCAs
* * *
## _9 In D.07-10-032 at 31_
## _10 D.09-09-047, p. 214_
Integrated Distributed Energy Resources (IDER) with more information available at https://www.cpuc.ca.gov/IDER.
* * *
7. The Emerging Technologies Program (ETP). ETP supports EE program uptake of cost effective new and underutilized commercial technologies. In order to filter this uptake, ETP is primarily engaged in technology evaluation with a focus on achieved savings and cost effectiveness via the ETP Technology Assessment subprogram. In this capacity, ETP both identifies suitable technologies for program inclusion and eliminates unsuitable technologies from consideration. Technologies with positive evaluation results are then recommended for inclusion into the portfolio and passed off to EE resource programs for workpaper development. To support the technology intake process, the ETP Technology Development Support subprogram works with technology development actors to support their engagement with ETP and IOU programs and gather information about current and upcoming technology innovations. ETP also holds annual or semi-annual ET Summits to encourage discussion and knowledge sharing. The Technology Introduction Support subprogram engages in work intended to smooth the transition of technologies into EE programs and subsequently into the market. D.18-05-041, Attachment A, requires the IOUs to initiate Technology-focused Pilots, which will be ETP’s first efforts at accelerating high-priority technologies into the market by identifying technology-specific market barriers and initiating market barrier breakdown activities. Along with this expanded scope, ETP is expanding its role as a technology communications hub spanning from R&D; to C&S; in California with several tools, including the Technology Priority Maps and an updated dissemination website (https://www.etcc ca.com/).
* * *
8. Codes and Standards (C&S;). In order to ensure that energy efficiency programs support the adoption of higher efficiency standards rather than compete with them, the IOUs shall implement programs to advocate for the adoption of higher codes and standards. D.12-05-015 established separate goals for codes and standards and affirmed that 100 percent of verified net savings shall count toward meeting these goals. The baseline for gross savings should be the previous standard or the prevailing market practice. The purpose of Codes and Standards goals is to give the IOUs credit for their specific contributions to new energy savings via their Codes and Standards advocacy work, which should not include naturally occurring savings or the advocacy work of other entities.
* * *
9. Marketing Outreach and Education (ME&O;). In the CPUC’s Proceeding A.12-08-007 directs the IOUs to implement the statewide Marketing, Education, and Outreach program called “Energy Upgrade California”, which encourages Californians to save energy, and informs them about time-of-use rates. For more information go to https://www.energyupgradeca.org/.
* * *
10. Competitive Bidding for Third Party (3P) Programs. Competitive solicitations help to identify innovative approaches or technologies for meeting savings goals with improved performance that might not otherwise be identified during the program planning process, and can take advantage of the unique strengths that third parties bring to the table. The IOUs shall propose a portfolio of programs that reflects the continuation of successful IOU and non IOU designed and implemented programs. As part of that process, the IOUs will solicit competitive bids from third parties for the purpose of soliciting innovative ideas and proposals for improved portfolio performance. Please see section IX for a more detailed description of the CPUC adopted rules associated with IOU third party solicitations.
* * *
11. Local Government and Institutional Partnerships. Local Government Partnerships (LGPs) are partnerships between an IOU and a Lead Local Partner (LLP), which could be a city, county or region for the purpose of engaging local governments to promote demand side management (DSM) activities. Specifically, LGPs are designed to generate energy and demand savings within their own facilities and in their communities through joint utility-local government program designs that incorporate utility offerings and local government leadership, take actions that support the California Energy Efficiency Strategic Plan, leverage their local government role/authority, and provide DSM outreach in the community. Pursuant to D.12-05-015, beginning in the 2013-2014 cycle, new candidate partners must also adhere to deep retrofit criteria, as defined in the IOUs' program implementation plans.
* * *
12. Pilot Programs. Pilot programs should be designed to create the measures and program delivery mechanisms of the future, enabling EE programs to achieve deeper savings and market transformation. The pilots should be limited in scope and duration so that results are available in a specified time frame and limited in budget so that unsuccessful programs have a minimal impact on the overall portfolio. All results of pilot programs must be shared widely with the other program implementers and with the stakeholders in the sector impacted by the pilot. There should be a specific plan and timeframe to move successful pilot programs into statewide use (if applicable), or other more significant program efforts.
* * *
Each proposed pilot should contain the following elements11:
* * *
## D.09-09-047 at 48-49
i. A specific statement of the concern, gap, or problem that the pilot seeks to address and the likelihood that the issue can be addressed cost effectively through utility programs; ii. Whether and how the pilot will address a Strategic Plan goal or strategy and market transformation; iii. Specific goals, objectives and end points for the project; iv. New and innovative design, partnerships, concepts or measure mixes that have not yet been tested or employed; v. A clear budget and timeframe to complete the project and obtain results within a portfolio cyclepilot projects should not be continuations of programs from previous portfolios; vi. Information on relevant baselines metrics or a plan to develop baseline information against which the project outcomes can be measured; vii. Program performance metrics (see Section 4.6.3); viii. Methodologies to test the cost-effectiveness of the project; ix. A proposed EM&V; plan; and
* * *
x. A concrete strategy to identify and disseminate best practices and lessons learned from the pilot to all California IOUs and to transfer those practices to resource programs, as well as a schedule and plan to expand the pilot to utility and hopefully statewide usage.
* * *
II. Funding Guidelines for IOUs
* * *
These guidelines provide the IOUs with ways to be compensated for their energy efficiency programs.
* * *
1. Energy Efficiency Funds from Electric Procurement Rates and Gas Public Purpose Program (PPP) Surcharges. Pursuant to § 381, 381.1, 399 and 890-900, gas PPP surcharge and/or electric procurement funds must be spent to deliver energy efficiency benefits to ratepayers in the IOU service territory from which the funds were collected. Gas PPP surcharge and/or electric procurement collections must fund energy efficiency programs that benefit gas and/or electric customers within an IOU's service territory, as adopted by the CPUC. However, nothing in these Rules is intended to prohibit or limit the ability of the CPUC to direct the IOUs to jointly fund selected measurement studies, statewide marketing and outreach programs,
* * *
or other EE programs and activities that reach across service territory boundaries that serve statewide energy efficiency efforts.
* * *
2. Cost Caps and Targets. All IOUs shall reflect all costs associated with the delivery of their energy efficiency programs in their submissions in the EE portfolio annual budget advice letters (ABAL) as stated in D.18-05-041 and shall note, where applicable, when the costs are recovered in other proceeding. Costs shall reflect the caps and targets defined in D.09-09-047 and clarified in D.12-11-015 (D.09-09-047, pg. 49). Administrative cost definitions are further delineated in
* * *
## _Appendix C of this manual._
i. Administration – Administrative costs for utility EE programs
* * *
(excluding non-IOU third party and/or government partnership budgets) are limited to 10 percent of total EE budgets. These costs shall be inclusive of any energy efficiency-related costs authorized and collected in other proceedings. These costs should also reflect the fully loaded personnel costs of delivering EE programs and shall also note where the costs have been or will be recovered elsewhere to avoid double counting of costs. Administrative costs shall be consistent across IOUs and can only be shifted into other cost categories subject to the fund shifting rules as described in D.15-10-028. The IOUs shall not reduce the non-utility portions of government partnership and third-party implementer administrative costs without following authorized fund shifting guidelines subject to the fund shifting guidelines in Appendix A
